Transcript

00:00
As we’ve just seen, with Compute Engine, you can choose the most appropriate machine properties for your instances, like the number

00:06
of virtual CPUs and the amount of memory, by using a set of predefined machine types, or by creating custom machine types.

00:16
To do this, Compute Engine has a feature called Autoscaling, where VMs can be added to or subtracted from an application based on load metrics.

00:26
The other part of making that work is balancing the incoming traffic among the VMs.

00:30
Google’s Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) supports several different kinds of load balancing, which we’ll explore shortly.

00:39
With Compute Engine, you can in fact configure very large VMs, which are great for workloads such

00:44
as in-memory databases and CPU-intensive analytics, but most Google Cloud customers start off with scaling out, not up.

00:53
The maximum number of CPUs per VM is tied to its “machine family” and is also constrained by the quota available to the user, which is zone-dependent.

01:03
Specifications for currently available VM machine types can be found at cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types

00:00
As we’ve just seen, with Compute Engine, you can choose the most appropriate machine properties for your instances, like the number 00:06 of virtual CPUs and the amount of memory, by using a set of predefined machine types, or by creating custom machine types. 00:16 To do this, Compute Engine has a feature called Autoscaling, where VMs can be added to or subtracted from an application based on load metrics. 00:26 The other part of making that work is balancing the incoming traffic among the VMs. 00:30 Google’s Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) supports several different kinds of load balancing, which we’ll explore shortly. 00:39 With Compute Engine, you can in fact configure very large VMs, which are great for workloads such 00:44 as in-memory databases and CPU-intensive analytics, but most Google Cloud customers start off with scaling out, not up. 00:53 The maximum number of CPUs per VM is tied to its “machine family” and is also constrained by the quota available to the user, which is zone-dependent. 01:03 Specifications for currently available VM machine types can be found at cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types
